[Music]
there's a prevailing attitude but art
doesn't matter in the real world but the
study of art can enhance our perception
and our ability to translate to others
what we see those skills are useful
those skills can save lives doctors
nurses and law enforcement agents can
use painting sculpture and photography
as tools to improve their visual acuity
and communication skills which are
critical during investigations and
emergencies if you're treating an injury
investigating a crime scene or trying to
describe either of those things to a
colleague art can make you better at it
here imagine you're a seasoned cop or a
dedicated doctor but also imagine you're
at a museum and let's look at a painting
Rene Magritte's time transfixed of 1938
depicts a mysterious and complex
interior that invites analysis not
unlike that required of a patient
symptoms or the scene of a crime a
miniature train whose origin and
destination are unknown is emerging from
a fireplace and the smoke from the
locomotive appears to flow up the
chimney as if from the fire that is
conspicuously absent below the eeriness
of the scene is echoed in the empty
living room enhanced by woodgrain floors
and decorative wall moldings to the
right of the fireplace perched atop the
mantelpiece are two candlesticks in a
clock behind these objects is a large
mirror that reveals an empty interior
and only a partial reflection of the
objects before it the juxtaposition of
the objects surrounding the moving train
raises numerous questions for which
there seemed to be no apparent answers
did I summarize the painting accurately
or leave any details out it's no big
deal if you see something else in a
painting but what if we're both seasoned
cops I call you for backup you show up
only to realize the two bank-robbing
ninjas I'd mentioned were actually six
bank-robbing ninjas with lasers close
study of art can train viewers to study
thoroughly analyze the elements observed
articulate them succinctly and formulate
questions to address the seeming
inconsistencies
scrutinizing the details of an
unfamiliar scene in this case the work
of art and accurately conveying any
observable contradictions is a
critically important skill for both
people who look at x-rays and those who
interrogate suspects let's interrogate
this painting shall we okay Mac late
that's quite a little picture you've
painted but why aren't there any train
tracks
why no fire what happened to the candles
why doesn't the fireplace have a little
tunnel for the train it just comes
straight through the wall and the clock
says it's about quarter to 1:00 but I'm
not sure the light that comes through
the window at an angle says it's just
past noon time what's this painting all
about anyway that's when you my trusty
partner hold me back then I leave you
get mcleach a cup of coffee and keep
grilling him to see if this painting
would hold up in court
viewers can provide a more detailed and
accurate description of a situation by
articulating what is seen and what is
not seen this is particularly important
in medicine if an illness is evidenced
by three symptoms and only two are
present in a patient a medical
professional must explicitly state the
absence of that third symptom signifying
that the patient may not have the
condition suspected articulating the
absence of a specific detail or behavior
known as the pertinent negative is as
critical as stating the details and
behaviors that are present in order to
treat the patient and conspicuous
absences are only conspicuous to eyes
trained to look for them art teaches
professionals across a wide spectrum of
fields not only how to ask more
effective questions about what cannot be
readily answered but also and more
importantly how to analyze complex
real-world situations from a new and
different perspective ultimately solving
difficult problems intense attention to
detail the ability to take a step back
and look differently we want first
responders to have the analytical skills
of master art historians at least art
trains us to investigate and that's a
real-world skill if
there ever was one